When I first brought my cat home from the Humane Society she was a mangy, pitiful animal.
She was so thin that you could count her vertebrae just by looking at her.
Apparently she was declawed by her previous owners, then abandoned or lost.
Since she couldn't hunt, she nearly starved.
Not only that, but she had an abscess on one hip.
The vets at the Humane Society had drained it, but it was still scabby and without fur.
She had a terrible cold, too.
She was sneezing and sniffling and her meow was just a hoarse squeak.
And she'd lost half her tail somewhere. Instead of tapering gracefully, it had a bony knob at the end.

1Stephen King, creator of such stories as Carrie and Pet Sematary, stated that
the Edgar Allan Poe stories he read as a child gave him the inspiration and
instruction he needed to become the writer that he is. 2Poe, as does Stephen
King, fills the reader's imagination with the images that he wishes the reader
to see, hear, and feel. 3His use of vivid, concrete visual imagery to present
both static and dynamic settings and to describe people is part of his
technique. 4Poe's short story "The Tell-Tale Heart" is a story about a young
man who kills an old man who cares for him, dismembers the corpse, then goes
mad when he thinks he hears the old man's heart beating beneath the floor
boards under his feet as he sits and discusses the old man's absence with the
police. 5In "The Tell-Tale Heart," a careful reader can observe Poe's skillful
manipulation of the senses.

1The sense of sight, the primary sense, is particularly susceptible to
manipulation. 2In "The Tell-Tale Heart," Poe uses the following image to
describe a static scene: "His room was as black as pitch with the thick
darkness . . ." Poe used the words "black," "pitch," and "thick darkness" not
only to show the reader the condition of the old man's room, but also to make
the reader feel the darkness." 3"Thick" is a word that is not usually
associated with color (darkness), yet in using it, Poe stimulates the reader's
sense of feeling as well as his sense of sight.
1Further on in the story, Poe uses a couple of words that cross not only the
sense of sight but also the sense of feeling to describe a dynamic scene. 2The
youth in the story has been standing in the open doorway of the old man's room
for a long time, waiting for just the right moment to reveal himself to the
old man in order to frighten him. 3Poe writes: "So I opened it [the lantern
opening]--you cannot imagine how stealthily, stealthily--until, at length, a
single dim ray, like the thread of the spider, shot from out the crevice and
fell full upon the vulture eye." 4By using the metaphor of the thread of the
spider (which we all know is a creepy creature) and the word "shot," Poe
almost makes the reader gasp, as surely did the old man whose one blind eye
the young man describes as "the vulture eye."
1The reader does not know much about what the old man in this story looks like
except that he has one blind eye. 2In the second paragraph of "The Tell-Tale
Heart," Poe establishes the young man's obsession with that blind eye when he
writes: "He had the eye of the vulture--a pale blue eye, with a film over it."
3This "vulture eye" is evoked over and over again in the story until the
reader becomes as obsessed with it as does the young man. 4His use of the
vivid, concrete word "vulture" establishes a specific image in the mind of the
reader that is inescapable.1"Thick darkness," "thread of the spider," and
"vulture eye" are three images that Poe used in "The Tell-Tale Heart" to
stimulate a reader's senses. 2Poe wanted the reader to see and feel real life.
3He used concrete imagery rather than vague abstract words to describe
settings and people. 4If Edgar Allan Poe was one of Stephen King's teachers,
then readers of King owe a debt of gratitude to that nineteenth-century
creator of horror stories.
